# Today's Goals:
- ~~Cable management diagram/planning as much as I could (easy W early in day)
- Figure out/set up Proxmox

# Today's Notes:
- I came in and the MokerLink power cord had fused to the extension strip I had it plugged into. So, I  turned the whole power system off, then checked every cord plugged in somewhere. Everything was safe/functional except the aforementioned MokerLink cord. I then carefully removed the MokerLink power cord to see that there was minimal damage to the extension cord, however the power cord wasn't functional. 
	- Took a few of the power cords off the extension cord to more easily distribute the load. Specifically moved the new power cord I am now using to charge the MokerLink switch into a lowly-used power strip. New power strip made of metal instead of plastic. Will check periodically on it since it gets hot.
	- Will shutoff the power system at lunch and at end of day now.
	- Proxmox datacenter system running well. 


our vm DHCP dns 999 has a .9 mask]]
Module 1 uses the dhcp vm, module 2 uses the firewall dnsmasq; setting dhcp static ips, and dhcp working ofr each
PRevious client will request same ip across DHCP servers if available
vnet1,2 , 3 opt 1, 2 are 20, 21, 22 on .1 gateway





# Qs for meeting today
- What ip should firewall be on if it is supposed to protect all the traffic leaving the network from VLANs on subnets 20, 21, 22? which gateway?
- Do we want each opt1/2/3 vlan to be the gateway statically set or just a dhcp device? 
- it's the LAN we are supposed to have the firewall on correct? 
- Should firewall 
- And will we eventually replace the admin access with the last remaining vlan ip? 