- Module Outline Doc:
	- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xG08-gUdslf-8hb5FynU70PwhwH6-lbUFbm1u1UnM04/edit?usp=sharing
# Notes
- Had meeting with John; the conference with URI students went well and the blue team won in the tabletop demo for utility cyber infrastructure vs attackers
- In meeting, Jon gave some advice and changes on the outline. The students will probably be on one subnet until the last network segmentation part of module 1. I will get more time, and they will use WSSH so that OS type doesn't matter. Additionally, consider adding linux command line to the cheat sheet. Add some binary/hexadecimal stuff before IPv4, but all else looks good.
- The students were working on robotics digital twins; when a robot picks something up, so does a virtual one in a world that mirrors the physical one. Good for verification of design.
- He will be gone til next friday. Gave some stuff to do fo next week. He also said I will have 3 hrs per training module, probably 9am-3pm, instead of 2!
- We can set up Cinc (open source version of Chef) if time allows to get into more complex networking
> Tasks: Simplify PTG SDDC diagram for students, set up WSSH web client, set up student accounts on the vms with passwords/permissions, get the wireless hotspot running then finalize cabling management in the cart, configure rules on opnsense in a meeting with him on monday

# Done:
- John meeting
- Edited and finished module draft plan
- Changed to-dos for next week
- Simplified PTG diagram drawing - need to make excalidraw version