# Next time: 
- SSH key files messing with
- *Will probably replace GL INET with  a firewall router that has access to all subnets. Probably opnsense. or the 4 port firewall box we install opnsense on and use as router

## Terminal Notes (if helpful): 
- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MUG0s-hYcFoyCuPGcVZLgZZYnxCVQgFS85lX-_sce7s/edit?usp=sharing

- When trying to use it on a vm, the firewall would block it, but webssh worked and was downloaded. I could see the gui. Next step -> setup the firewall rules

** WSSH doesn't work because my ssh isn't even enabled between VMs right now; it just tweaks out, even when I edit the sshd_config file to allow it
# WSSH Notes
- get into a directory I want
- Pre-reqs: 
	- Python 3
	- Traget VM/server has ssh enabled, and is reachable on the network
	- TCP port 22 is open between webssh host and target vm
- Installing:
		- sudo apt update
		- sudo apt install python3-pip python3-venv
		- mkdir and cd there
		- *the below steps make a virtual environment*
		- python3 -m venv venv *only need to do first time*
		- source venv/bin/activate
		- *install webssh only needs to be done once*
		- pip install webssh
		- wssh *starts is on localhost:8888*
		- *to allow other users on the network to connect: wssh --address=0.0.0.0 then they can browse to the http server*
		- get out with ctrl C then out of the virtual enviornment with "deactivate"


Summary of my issues: Can't ssh into vm anymore, pretty sure firewall blocks it. Also, the DHCP vm when I turn it on isn't assigning an IP any longer

Checking during meeting with John, but for now am going to read on the proxmox roles/permissions documentation and the opnsense firewall rules documentation.

# Roles/Proxmox Permissions For student Accounts
- went onto each node, and did this (user accounts already added with passwords)
- pveum acl modify / --roles PVEVMUser --groups Students
	- Gives basic perms to them
- Tested it on a student account within a VM
- Firewall prob doesn't need accounts because if students use/configure it, they will probably do so on the root.\
- Every node and student account has the student users
- **Nodes have acounts so now students can access proxmox not on root. VMs also have accounts now in linux just in case so no root access**


**Add traceroute diagram to training module. traceroute. 
Good to wssh into jump host as needed
took snapshot of jump i can go back to if i screw it up

make config file for wssh and itll add a command for it so it can be on systemctl as a service to start or stop it. so jump host can ssh into others

cp command to copy a file and change name a lil

# Issue with SSH:
- I tried to do it from root, but needed to do it from a student profile.
- This is good. Don't change, eneds nto use sudo
- **To get into root, log in as student, type su -  then login to root's password**. With sudo I don't need to know root's password just mien.
- and from root, I can do su - student2 and logint oanybody
- Can be student2 from student1 if I know the password; root doesn't need the pw
# WSSH only onto the same subnet for now

# For the jumphost: 
- once I do wssh to get it running, go to my laptop and in search bar use: http://my.ip.add.ress:8888