## **To Do With John:**
DHCP
Static IPs
How to set my own static ips
DNS

# No terminal notes; mostly lecture/hands-on
# General Notes (need cleaning)
when setting static ip it has to be outside dhcp range; continue to practice

domain name system i get a host name.domain name.toplevel
Called a fully qualified domain name
FQDN
www.google.com for example

can have subdomains: www.acep.uaf.edu

top level server is for edu here
we added acep dubdomain to uaf.edu. 

Rememebr subneeting netamsks, where first part is address then host name? here we do that bacjwards, so www is host name and rest is domain name

Can have many subdomains.

DNS is just a database of a registered FQDN for an ip. Exists because ip aren't super human readable.
.lan is default domain name instead or like .com or .org
set up dns and then see how it works

Host command using ip or web name. **nslookup** also works. there is dig. and some other ones

we did an ip: 192.168.8.242 and www.acpe.uaf.edu

endian. big endian, littlle endian. called byte ordering in CS. Has to do with most significant or least significant digits first. big is most significant (lowest) first. little endung is smallest number on right side (first) read right to left. 

IP address is big endian b/c most significant on left. 

The name like www.acep.uaf.edu is little endian becasue least significant is on right. 

IP vs host name are backwards

john.haverlack@haverlack.net

modern is little endian, but it doesn't realllly matter just a convention

Can limit amoun of devces with dhcp range, but nothing preventing someone from, if they can join my network, setting their own ip but they can't change the range unless they have admin access. 

inside firewall:
GL.inet firewall router. The box does both, routing and firewall. messing with FW is tedious on that device. running a DHCP service a program that runs in background for a function. ssh port 22, https 443
DNS runs on port 53. 

DHCP doesnt run on port. 

TO have an IP socket you need two things. a source ip: port connects to a destinatio nip + port. Layer 3. a protocol type of udp or tcp. also icmp for pinging very low level. HTTP runs at layer 4 as it combines ip on port 80

DHCP runs at link layer of layer 2. talks mac addresses bc mac sends out backet to 2 broadcast to check for dhcp to get ip. dhcp replies on layer 2, then gives it ip from 3. it can self set ip address according to range. 

dhcp no port number because runs on layer 2, while orts are layer 3. 

there is ntp. port 123. http on port 80 is on web interfvace of router bc don't need https. runs a web server there, the firewall/router does i mean. ntp layers have more time for each layer to linked list like synchronize so each stratum hop from source is less accurate. 

all the services were running on one device, but they don't have to:
create our firewall router,(192.168.8.1) and ut has a lan port and a wan port. on

LAN: 192.168.8.2. :
DHCP for lan and statically assign its ip. 

other lan is dot three: can run dns so that will be the dns ut ussyes, the services are independent of the firewall, they don;t have ot all be on that device, when we add serveers we usualy think of them as specific functions., could have a web server, a DB, a file. there could be an app that goes from web server to db. 

*can web app stuff but doesn't use memorysystem ctl start stop services*

if i run nmap i can see services, which i can use systemctl to start, stop, etc. and if i check ips running on service with sudo nmap -sn <ip> i can plug any of the ips running to see what services they are using on my network.
edited caddy file gave it new root where webfile was. runs on html. If someone foes on my ip, i can host it

