# To-do: 
- SDDC diagram
- We can set them up anywhere, they just connect to the network

Tomorrow morning with Jon: How we want to use the other 2 boxes and cluster set up. just have 1 nic

# Done: 
- proxmox install, vm setup and web interferace.
- set up debian linux and vm on it. 
- other 3 boxes set up

# Terminal Notes:
- https://docs.google.com/document/d/12P_QDT8ZCBEFZ0Q5BtO7hWfN4bWzpZid9HXjb-tW9D4/edit?usp=sharing

# General Notes (need cleaning)

utc standard tiemzone greenwich
nvme is internal harddrive installing OS of usb onto a micro sd card

proxmox:
work out training ground bugs
sdb is micro sd card. we are installing the usb burn onto that for vm.
lsblk lists block devices. nvme has partitions on it. block device is a storage device. block deviec has a file system on top of it, once formatted can conect to system and mount or remove files onit. 


df -h shows mounted volumes

physically only one nvme device. it just has partitions. we have hard drives. ned to know what we are installing to. 

difference between volatile and non volatile is ower must be on for volatile memory to keep its storage. when power goes out iuts emory is wiped, but its very fast. non volatile is slow by comparison. 

RAM = random access memory. We use ram and hardware to store stuff becasue ram is volatile

Non volatile memory storage:
HD = hard drive has moving physical parts
SSD is solid state drive

Volatile memory storage:
RAM

Inside computer we have a CPU and RAM. we watt ram really clsoe to CPU, so we want processes running to go fast when accessing stuff inside ram. 
CPU connected to ram and disk indepednetly. disk and ram are non volatile and volatile. NEtworking also connected to CPU. no sub conections. also connected to devices. 

don't want cpu readong or writing from disk bc slow. When we launch a new process fro a command, cpu ngoes to disk and finds file then loads it into ram. Then when process ends, the ram dissappears, but it copies what was on ram onto disk.

HArd drives are slowest. SSD use transitores to switch bits. SSD faster than SSSD Ram usually a  million times faster than HD. new type of SSD for 5 years called an NVME.

NVME is a type of SSD stands for non volatile storage device. fastest type. 
USB is a type of SSD. Slower than hard drive. 
Micro SD cards; type of SSD - slowest.


Under devices (we did an lsblk) everything in NV we went over is a device. Chucnks of memory have blocks to make them up. Think like a matrix of blocks, each with an addressable .EAch block is so many bytes. Each of the NV shows up as a block device it can write data to., So we don't need to do a different thing to each type of device. 

They are under /dev/... like nvme or sda
/dev/mblk are more like  microusb. 

sda is a hard drive (SSD), but sda1, sda2 are partitions

What is a aprtioion like nvme1?
IF you have a blcok device, must format with a file system. formatting is a way to add anither layer of data onto block debice, like a databse so when we add a file and interfact with the system, we are interfacnig with file system. Latest windows one is NTFS. 

Linux also knows how to talk with the windows file systems such as FAT exfat, etc. My cimputer uses ext4 b/c linux file system

For linux's file systems, there are a few. We will probably use ext4, ceph, etc. We woll get ceph setup but not try to understand it. 

We can format hard drive block device, or we can partition it. This is so we can allocate like 20 gigs from nvme to this partition for boot up, then put basic root partition on a different one like nvme2, then on nvme3 that's the rest of space for storage. 

Partitionoing is a way of making virtual hard drives on a physical device, each with own file system. Connecting file to a block deviice is mounting. ejecting is unmounting after done. Writing stuff from ram to drive, then pull it out is what we do. if we pull drive out before eject, then files won't be saved bc no chance to get out. eject is unmount. 

sync forces anythign left in ram to save to disk. 

caches go into ram to access faster and write to dis later when it needs to. 

unmanaged/managed switch; expands lan. 

type ip like https://192.168.8.165:8006 into browser then root as username, the pw. folder view, node, shell to see it. can also ssh into it in my terminal

Can shutdown//reboot (if using sudo for root privelage) devices 

Network bridge: bridge lets ethernet talk to each other. proxmox has bridges that help manage vlans and ethenrts. virtual bridges don't care if connections tagged\\

lvm has 3 layers: physical volumes, volume groups, logical volumes. Can add disks to the volume group, and within a vg carve space out into LVs

tmp used by OS to create socket files. starts processes
var used for temporary or DB info

code program is under usr, config under etc, other info under var

