# Done
- 2-hr practice of module 1 for Wednesday
- Several hour tour of the UAF Geophysical Institute - all interns
- Newsletter article **finished and submitted** (at bottom of today's notes)
- EdX Feedback Form Completed
- University Helpdesk/IT Group contacted for interest in the testing for training modules
- End of summer presentation
	- Supposedly only 7-9 minutes long with a couple minutes for questions, so I hid some slides and cut some content out to go quicker. 
	- Barely within time, but within time
	- https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AsixtkIBEBvmx54_uRFJ1SWigVcPVf-Ejj4y9l_ADiY/edit?usp=sharing
	- Actual presentation is on their YouTube Channel post-internship.
- Minor module 2 edits 

Newsletter Article:
Full copy: 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHBO0YJEGzO1puCOyC_hD52vmdOp1GD9IfVU0Tu09x4/edit?usp=sharing

**Helping Secure Rural Alaska’s Microgrids

As energy infrastructure becomes increasingly digitalized, its cybersecurity and networking systems must keep pace. In rural Alaska however, communities operating local microgrids often lack access to the necessary technical expertise and training resources to maintain secure network infrastructure. 

That’s why Caden Kelly, a freshman electrical engineering and computer sciences student from UC Berkeley, is working as a summer intern with ACEP to create deployable Cyber Security training materials for rural Alaskan communities. 

Kelly worked with mentor John Haverlack, ACEP’s Information Security Lead. His project focused on creating a portable network training ground and two network training modules. The portable training ground allowed participants to interact with a network and firewall, then configure a similar system themselves, following the hands-on training modules developed by Kelly. 

Many Alaskan communities continue to rely on aging cyber infrastructure with limited network segmentation and firewall protection. Kelly’s training materials empower participants to build future networks with security by design, while demonstrating a cost effective solution to these resource-constrained communities. The goal was to give communities the knowledge and tools needed to better protect the power systems they rely on every day.

In tandem with these goals is Kelly’s own development: “I came into the summer with almost no experience in Linux or computer networking, so everything was new to me. By the end of the internship, I’d built and configured complex virtual networks, firewalls and software-defined infrastructure that I never would have imagined working with just a few months earlier. John was great! He was always there to answer questions, but more importantly, he taught me better ways to troubleshoot problems on my own and think through them systematically. Networking has gone from something completely unfamiliar to something I really enjoy because every problem feels like solving a puzzle that ultimately helps protect systems people rely on every day."

This internship is funded by the National Science Foundation through ACEP’s National Science Foundation Research Experiences for Undergraduates program. View the final presentation for this project on ACEP’s YouTube Channel. For more information on this project, please contact John Haverlack at jehaverlack@alaska.edu.**
